Welcome back.
In this video I'll walk you through some of my code for the climate dashboard I show you in the last
video to save time.
I've already thrown together the Tim Allen CSSA files in my HDMI.
I'm loading a Google font in my stylesheet then I've got a nav area with the range input per year and
the radio buttons to toggle between emissions and emissions per capita.
After that I've got containers for my SVGA is followed by my tool dip and a bunch of script tags to
help keep the code more maintainable.
I've pulled my javascript into four different files.
Yes BAARDA Yes mapped out dodgiest and app.
I won't say too much about this VSS.
It's there to look at if you're interested.
I've got some basic styles for the page along with some tool tips dialing and some classes to help you
with the map interactivity o.
I've also got a s file with all of my emissions data in it.
We've got a lot to do.
So let's break it down into pieces.
First I need to get all of my data into my javascript.
Next I'll make the map then I'll make the pie chart.
Then I'll worry about the Bartter and after that I'll deal with the tooltip and this video will get
through the first three of these phases will save the bar chart in the tooltip for the next video.
Let's start with the app s.
I'll need to make two requests one to get the top of adjacent file for the map and one to get my emissions
data.
So I'll start by making a queue and deferring to requests I'll pass a formatter into D-3 gets ESV as
well so that I can format the keys and make sure my data values are numbers once everything is loaded.
I'll first get the extreme values for the years in the dataset.
I'll cite the current year to the smallest year and I'll grab the current data type from whichever radio
button is checked.
I'll also convert my table Jaison using top adjacent feature and store the result in a variable called
data.
I'm going to let my SVGA be as wide as their container.
So next I'll grab one of the containers and remember it's with.
Bear with me for this next step.
I'm going to assume that I have functions co-create map and draw map create map only requires a width
and height based my height on the width draw map on the other hand requires both data sets as well as
the current year and the current data type.
Since the coloring depends on both of these variables next I'll grab my range and put based on its Id
set its min max and value and at an event listener.
When the value changes I'll grab the new current year and redraw the graph.
I'll also need an event listener for the radio buttons both of which have a name attribute of data type.
Whenever there's a change there on the to grab the new data type and redraw the map great.
This structure is really helpful.
Now I just need to implement create map and draw map.
Let's hop into the map dodgiest file.
I've already written the Create map function as you can see all it does is set dimensions on the SVGA
and add a text element for a graph title.
So let's focus on draw a map to draw the map.
Let me first select the map element with D-3.
Remember that when dealing with maps you often need a projection once again.
I'll use the Mercator scale and translate it based on the SVGA then I'll create my path function next
let me deal with the data.
First I'll update the text next to the range and that it shows the current year.
Then I'll join my cxxviii climate data to my geography to do this.
I'll use the fact that both datasets use the same set of IDs.
So for each feature I can filter my climate data for countries whose country code matches the features
ID.
Next up create a variable called name which I'll want to refer to the current country but a couple of
things can go wrong.
It's possible I won't have any data for the country in my geographic dataset or I may have data but
not for the current year.
This code basically sets the properties key equal to the climate data if it exists or equal to a simple
object if the data doesn't exist.
Next.
Here's some code for the color scales.
Note that you can create a scale involving multiple colors.
If your domain and range are arrays with more than two values it would be best to get the min and max
programmatically here.
And in fact it would probably be better to use some type of logarithmic or power scale instead of a
linear scale but to keep things simple I'll stick with what we know.
Once we have the scales it's time for the general update pattern.
Here's the code.
I'll never have an exit selection so the pattern is a little simpler than normal for new elements.
I'll append a path element and for existing elements I'll add a transition and update the file.
Lastly I'll need to update the graph title.
The title should be based on the key but since the keys are in camel case I also write a little helper
function that takes the camel case string and spaces in the right places and makes everything lowercase.
The first argument to my replace method is the regular expression that will find all capital letters.
The second argument is a callback that will replace any capital letter by a space followed by the lowercase
version of the capital letter
as you can see the graph in our response to all of the input elements in the nav.
Nice Next let's tackle the pie chart.
I'll use the same pattern as I did for the map first in the J S.
Also the height for the pie chart.
Then assume I have functions called create PI and drop by Create PI takes just a width and height draw
PI takes in the climate data along with the current year.
It only shows data on emissions though not emissions per capita.
So I only need to update the callback to the range input and redraw the pie chart whenever someone changes
the year.
I've got to create my code inside of the IJA s already like before.
I'm just adjusting the squeegie and appending a couple of elements to it.
The dropping method should also look pretty familiar.
After grabbing the pie chart I'm using D-3 PI and arke helpers for the ARX.
I'm sorting by continent first then by emissions next and grabbing my data by year creating an array
of all continents and using those continents to create a color scale.
After that it's another application of the general update pattern with my year data in the arc's old
Dark's get removed new arx get appended and all arcs on the page get their D and fill attributes.
Updated.
Finally I update the text from the chart title after I save and refresh.
You can now see two charts working on the page let's pause here in the next video.
I'll finish up this solution.